RHIDP-2024: Configuring PostgreSQL databases in RHDH (#262)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/admin/proc-configuring-postgresql-instance-using-helm.adoc

[id="proc-configuring-postgresql-instance-using-helm_{context}"]
= Configuring an external PostgreSQL instance using the Helm Chart

You can configure an external PostgreSQL instance by using the Helm Chart. By default, the Helm Chart creates and manages a local instance of PostgreSQL in the same namespace where you have deployed the {product-very-short} instance. However, you can change this default setting to configure an external PostgreSQL database server, for example, AWS RDS or Azure database. 

.Prerequisites

* You have the following details:
** `db-host`: Denotes your PostgreSQL instance Domain Name System (DNS) or IP address 
** `db-port`: Denotes your PostgreSQL instance port number, usually `5432`
** `username`: Denotes the user name to connect to your PostgreSQL instance
** `password`: Denotes the password to connect to your PostgreSQL instance

> * You have a PostgreSQL certificate of the .pem format so that you can secure your database connection using the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol. For more information, see link:{LinkAdminGuide}#postgresql-certificate-for-aws-rds_admin-rhdh[Downloading PostgreSQL certificate for AWS RDS] or link:{LinkAdminGuide}#generating-postgreSQL-certificate-for-azure-database_admin-rhdh[Generating PostgreSQL certificate for Azure database].

Reviewer: Both links are broken: [Downloading PostgreSQL certificate for AWS RDS](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.3/html-single/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/index#postgresql-certificate-for-aws-rds_admin-rhdh) or [Generating PostgreSQL certificate for Azure database](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.3/html-single/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/index#generating-postgreSQL-certificate-for-azure-database_admin-rhdh).

Author: Because it points to RHDH 1.2 docs, which is still in progress. Once we publish the 1.2 doc, those links should work.

[NOTE]
====
By default, {product-short} uses a database for each plugin and automatically creates it if none is found. As an administrator, know that users might need the `Create Database` privilege in addition to `PSQL Database` privileges for configuring an external PostgreSQL instance.  
====
 

.Procedure

. Create a credential secret to connect with the PostgreSQL instance:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat <<EOF | oc -n <your-namespace> create -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
 name: <cred-secret> <1>
type: Opaque
stringData: <2>
 POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <password>
 POSTGRES_PORT: "<db-port>"
 POSTGRES_USER: <username>
 POSTGRES_HOST: <db-host>
 PGSSLMODE: <ssl-mode> # for TLS connection <3>
 NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS: <abs-path-to-pem-file> # for TLS connection, e.g. /opt/app-root/src/postgres-crt.pem <4>
EOF
----
<1> Provide the name of the credential secret.
<2> Provide credential data to connect with your PostgreSQL instance.

> <3> Optional: Provide the value only if you need a TLS connection for your PostgreSQL instance.

Reviewer 2: `Provide the value` sounds a bit vague to me. 
I suggest to do one of the following:
a. point to postgres documentation for SSL modes: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/15/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLMODE
b. say that they have to provide the value according to desired SSL mode

This applies to all the occurrences of `PGSSLMODE`

> <4> Optional: Provide the value only if you need a TLS connection for your PostgreSQL instance.

Author: I see your point, the sections (3.5 and 3.7) created for TLS connection is specific to the Crunchy database. On the other hand, the ones (section 3.4 and 3.6) without TLS connection is specific to AWS RDS and Azure database. The sections  (3.5 and 3.7)  specific to TLS connection was created as per the scope of this JIRAhttps://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-1238.

> <4> Optional: Provide the value only if you need a TLS connection for your PostgreSQL instance.

Reviewer 2: Okay, I had no idea that 3.2 and 3.4 are specific for Crunchy database. Tweaking the headings would definitely help to distinguish.

All the supported databases (Crunchy, AWS RDS and Azure database) can use TLS connection, although they might not be enforced.

> <4> Optional: Provide the value only if you need a TLS connection for your PostgreSQL instance.

Author: I do not think we should make our headings vendor-specific. The segregation point i see is the presence of a TLS private key. So, i have modified the headings accordingly.  

- Configuring an external PostgreSQL instance using the Operator
- Configuring an external PostgreSQL instance with a TLS private key using the Operator
- Configuring an external PostgreSQL instance using the Helm Chart
- Configuring an external PostgreSQL instance with a TLS private key using the Helm Chart

> <4> Optional: Provide the value only if you need a TLS connection for your PostgreSQL instance.

Reviewer 2: In my eyes, it makes sense to have just two guides -  for Operator and Helm. 
They will contain the basic configuration without TLS as required, the steps for configuring TLS as optional, and the same for using a TLS private key.

- To use external Postgresql, configure this
- If you want to use TLS connection, configure this and use these values
- if your TLS connection require private key, configure this  and use these values

> <4> Optional: Provide the value only if you need a TLS connection for your PostgreSQL instance.

Author: Thaks @zdrapela for this suggestion ^^^. This would also help us to remove load of redundant content and present the information in more succinct manner.

[id="proc-configuring-postgresql-instance-using-helm_{context}"]
= Configuring an external PostgreSQL instance using the Helm Chart

You can configure an external PostgreSQL instance by using the Helm Chart. By default, the Helm Chart creates and manages a local instance of PostgreSQL in the same namespace where you have deployed the {product-very-short} instance. However, you can change this default setting to configure an external PostgreSQL database server, for example, AWS RDS or Azure database. 

.Prerequisites

* You are using a supported version of PostgreSQL. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/developerhub[Product life cycle page].
* You have the following details:
** `db-host`: Denotes your PostgreSQL instance Domain Name System (DNS) or IP address 
** `db-port`: Denotes your PostgreSQL instance port number, usually `5432`
** `username`: Denotes the user name to connect to your PostgreSQL instance
** `password`: Denotes the password to connect to your PostgreSQL instance

> * You have installed the {product-very-short} application by using the Operator or Helm Chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have installed the {product-very-short} application by using the Helm Chart.
```

type: Opaque
stringData:
 postgres-crt.pem: |-
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  <certificate-key> <2>
  # ... 
EOF  
----
<1> Provide the name of the certificate secret.
<2> Provide the certificate key.

. Create a credential secret to connect with the PostgreSQL instance:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat <<EOF | oc -n <your-namespace> create -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
 name: <cred-secret> <1>
type: Opaque
stringData: <2>
 POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <password>
 POSTGRES_PORT: "<db-port>"
 POSTGRES_USER: <username>
 POSTGRES_HOST: <db-host>
 PGSSLMODE: <ssl-mode> # for TLS connection <3>
 NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS: <abs-path-to-pem-file> # for TLS connection, e.g. /opt/app-root/src/postgres-crt.pem <4>
EOF
----
<1> Provide the name of the credential secret.
<2> Provide credential data to connect with your PostgreSQL instance.
<3> Optional: Provide the value based on the required link:https://www.postgresql.org/docs/15/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLMODE[SSL mode].
<4> Optional: Provide the value only if you need a TLS connection for your PostgreSQL instance.

. Configure your PostgreSQL instance in the Helm configuration file named `values.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
upstream:

>  postgresql:

Reviewer 2: Fix YAML indentation by increments of 2 spaces (`  `).

[id="proc-configuring-postgresql-instance-using-helm_{context}"]
= Configuring an external PostgreSQL instance using the Helm Chart

> You can configure an external PostgreSQL instance by using the Helm Chart. By default, the Helm Chart creates and manages a local instance of PostgreSQL in the same namespace where you have deployed the {product-very-short} instance. However, you can change this default setting to configure an external PostgreSQL database server, for example, AWS RDS or Azure database.

Reviewer 3: Can we please add the full form of AWS and RDS here?

.Prerequisites

* You are using a supported version of PostgreSQL. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/developerhub[Product life cycle page].
* You have the following details:
** `db-host`: Denotes your PostgreSQL instance Domain Name System (DNS) or IP address 

> ** `db-port`: Denotes your PostgreSQL instance port number, usually `5432`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** `db-port`: Denotes your PostgreSQL instance port number, such as `5432`
```

** `username`: Denotes the user name to connect to your PostgreSQL instance
** `password`: Denotes the password to connect to your PostgreSQL instance
* You have installed the {product-very-short} application by using the Helm Chart.
* Optional: You have a CA certificate, TLS private key, and TLS certificate so that you can secure your database connection by using the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol. For more information, refer to your PostgreSQL vendor documentation.

[NOTE]
====

> By default, {product-short} uses a database for each plugin and automatically creates it if none is found. As an administrator, know that users might need the `Create Database` privilege in addition to `PSQL Database` privileges for configuring an external PostgreSQL instance.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, {product-short} uses a database for each plugin and automatically creates it if none is found. You might need the `Create Database` privilege in addition to `PSQL Database` privileges for configuring an external PostgreSQL instance.  
```

====
 

.Procedure

> . Optional: Create a certificate secret to configure your PostgreSQL instance with a TLS connection: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Optional: Create a certificate secret to configure your PostgreSQL instance with a Transport Security Layer (TLS) connection: 
```

Author: Thet term was expanded before. So, I am not expanding again.

+
[source,yaml]
----
cat <<EOF | oc -n <your-namespace> create -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
 name: <crt-secret> <1>
type: Opaque
stringData:
 postgres-ca.pem: |-
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  <ca-certificate-key> <2>
 postgres-key.key: |-
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  <tls-private-key> <3>
 postgres-crt.pem: |-    
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  <tls-certificate-key> <4>
  # ...
EOF  
----
<1> Provide the name of the certificate secret.
<2> Provide the CA certificate key.

> <3> Provide the TLS private key.
> <4> Provide the TLS certificate key.

Reviewer 2: These values are required only if some want's to use TLS with certificate **and need a key for it**.
```suggestion
<3> Optional: Provide the TLS private key.
<4> Optional: Provide the TLS certificate key.
```

. Create a credential secret to connect with the PostgreSQL instance:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat <<EOF | oc -n <your-namespace> create -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
 name: <cred-secret> <1>
type: Opaque
stringData: <2>
 POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <password>
 POSTGRES_PORT: "<db-port>"
 POSTGRES_USER: <username>
 POSTGRES_HOST: <db-host>
 PGSSLMODE: <ssl-mode> # for TLS connection <3>
 NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS: <abs-path-to-pem-file> # for TLS connection, e.g. /opt/app-root/src/postgres-crt.pem <4>
EOF
----
<1> Provide the name of the credential secret.
<2> Provide credential data to connect with your PostgreSQL instance.

> <3> Optional: Provide the value based on the required link:https://www.postgresql.org/docs/15/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLMODE[SSL mode].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<3> Optional: Provide the value based on the required link:https://www.postgresql.org/docs/15/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLMODE[Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) mode].
```

  extraVolumes:
    - ephemeral:
        volumeClaimTemplate:
          spec:
            accessModes:
              - ReadWriteOnce
            resources:
              requests:
                storage: 1Gi
      name: dynamic-plugins-root
    - configMap:
        defaultMode: 420
        name: dynamic-plugins
        optional: true
      name: dynamic-plugins
    - name: dynamic-plugins-npmrc
      secret:
        defaultMode: 420
        optional: true
        secretName: dynamic-plugins-npmrc
    - name: postgres-crt
      secret:
        secretName: <crt-secret> <7>
        # ...
----
<1> Set the value of the `upstream.postgresql.enabled` parameter to `false` to disable creating local PostgreSQL instances. 
<2> Provide the name of the credential secret.
<3> Provide the name of the credential secret.
<4> Optional: Provide the name of the TLS certificate only for a TLS connection.
<5> Optional: Provide the name of the CA certificate only for a TLS connection.
<6> Optional: Provide the name of the TLS private key only if your TLS connection requires a private key.
<7> Provide the name of the certificate secret if you have configured a TLS connection.

> . Apply the configuration changes in your Helm configuration file:

Reviewer 3: Can you please confirm the file here that needs to be changed?

Author: It was the same file, values.yaml, edited in the previous step. mentioned in the step as well.

+
[source,terminal]
----

> helm upgrade -n <your-namespace> <your-release-name> redhat-developer/backstage -f values.yaml

Reviewer 2: This is the proper Helm chart for downstream.
```suggestion
helm upgrade -n <your-namespace> <your-release-name> openshift-helm-charts/redhat-developer-hub -f values.yaml
```

> [source,terminal]
> ----
> helm upgrade -n <your-namespace> <your-release-name> redhat-developer/backstage -f values.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
helm upgrade -n <your-namespace> <your-deploy-name> openshift-helm-charts/redhat-developer-hub -f values.yaml --version {product-chart-version}
```

This is the proper Helm chart for downstream. 
And we have to use the version.
And we should change `<your-release-name>` to `<your_deploy_name>` as this is already used before in the docs, and is better

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I deleted my previous suggestion, since this is better and complete

.Prerequisites

> * You are using PostgreSQL version 15.

Reviewer 4: Per [RHIDP-2016](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-2016).  Postgres 14, 15, 16 are supported.  This will be detailed on the Developer Hub life cycle page.  This statement should be amended to:

> You are using a supported version of PostgreSQL

It should also be the same on the Operator guidance.
